---
title: "Sample Post written in VIM"
layout: post
date: 2014-04-06
tags: Vim Ubuntu
---
In order to continue my journey of foraying into the world of Linux, I've decided to try out using vim as my text editor - vim, for all who are unaware, is a command-line based text-editor that is widely revered among the Unix community. It's very simple on the surface, but the with abundance of keyboard shortcuts and editing features, makes for a comparable experience to an IDE (so some say). 

I've never used vim before, so I figured I'd give it a shot. It's been pretty cool to work with so far, but it does take a bit of getting used to. For starters, you completely lose the ability to use a mouse - the command line is entirely keyboard based, so you use the keyboard to navigate the editor. This includes using the `j` and `k` keys to move up and down, and the `h` and `l` keys to move left and right. This is something further complicated by the 2 modes that vim can be in: command and insert. Command mode interprets keystrokes as literal commands, so saving and opening files (as well as navigating the editor) are done in command mode. Insert mode inserts the literal characters that you type into the file, so when writing actual code or posts, you use insert mode. I'm still pretty uncomfortable switching back and forth, but I'm sure I'll adapt eventually.

One of the interesting things about vim is that it has syntax-highlighting, whch is a pretty awesome feature to have, even in the terminal. It's also pretty hand to have he `jekyll` terminal session in another tab, and thus being able to easily switch to check the latest changes to the blog. All in all, I think using vim will be worth it, so long as I'm willing to stick with it for the long-term.
